[grand orchestral
fanfare playing]
A shocking turn of events
six weeks prior to Election Day,
Congressional incumbent
Rick West has died
of an apparent heart attack.
His opponent, State
Senator Peter Kane,
now runs unopposed,
canceling tonight’s
highly anticipated debate.
He gave this
statement earlier today.
[reporters clamoring]
Senator Kane.
Sir, with West’s sudden
passing, you’ve gone overnight
from dark horse to sure
thing. What is your response?
Well, first and foremost, I
want to express my condolences
to the West family.
Although the congressman
and I agreed on very little,
I still considered him
a worthy opponent.
What about criticisms
of your plans to pass laws
to restrict religious freedoms
and support bigger government?
That’s enough questions for
now. Thank you guys. Appreciate it.
- We need answers.
- He’s got to go.
- [reporters clamoring]
- Senator, we need answers.
- Sir, sir! Senator Kane!
- Come back, Senator!
WESLEY: Thank you guys.
Appreciate it. Thank you.
[Kane sighs]
KANE: So this would’ve
been our battleground, huh?
Oh, I wish I could’ve
debated West.
I could’ve struck the death
blow myself. [chuckles]
Senator.
KANE: Dan Thompson,
big fan of the show.
[chuckles]
Gentlemen, the
passing of Rick West
may allow us to
catch up with the rest
- of the modern world.
- [others murmuring]
I have always said that
religious superstition
has no place in influencing
our laws and government.
So, here’s to
enlightenment, reason
and reshaping our nation’s core.
OTHERS: Cheers.
DAVID: You see those statues
and those monuments out there?
They’re trying to
tell us something.
They’re saying,
"Don’t forget about us.
"Don’t forget about the...
the battles that we fought
"and the price that
we paid for freedom.
Don’t let our
sacrifice be in vain."
In the long history
of the world,
only a few generations
have been granted the role
of defending freedom in
its hour of maximum danger.
Ask not
what America will do for you
but what together we can
do for the freedom of man.
DAVID: That’s part
of your plan, isn’t it?
Keep us all divided so
bit by bit, we don’t realize
you’re chipping away at
our freedoms and liberties.
Because it’s all
about power for you.
And the only way that
you can get more power
is by taking it
from someone else.
And that would be
all well and good
if it wasn’t for
that pesky thing
called the Constitution that
keeps getting in your way.
- [applause]
- RONALD REAGAN: Without God,
we are mired in the material,
that flat world that tells us
only what the senses perceive.
Without God, there
is a coarsening
- of the society.
- [crowd clamoring]
And without God,
democracy will not
and cannot long endure.
[applause]
If we ever forget that
we’re one nation under God,
then we will be a
nation gone under.
DAVID: They know
what’s at stake here.
And maybe in order to understand
how precious and
fragile freedom really is,
maybe...
maybe you have to lose it.
[siren blaring]
[busy chatter]
KANE [over TV]:
...and so has America.
Okay, if you can give
me those numbers,
I’d appreciate it.
KANE [over TV]: We must
not let religious superstitions
determine our laws of
culture, science and reason.
[busy chatter continues]
- Yes, sir.
- We should be fine with all of that.
I’m hoping that
the electoral ballots
that we have on the
other side will be great.
This is a disaster.
Why didn’t we have
a contingency plan?
DAVID [over monitor]: They’re
trying to tell us something.
They’re saying,
"Don’t forget about us.
"Don’t forget about the...
the battles that we fought
and the price that
we paid for freedom."
Wasn’t there an attorney in line
- to replace West?
- Collins?
- Collins.
- Dropped out three days ago.
[sighs]
MURRAY: No one
thought West could lose.
Any help here, boss?
DAVID [over monitor]:
...bit by bit, you’re
chipping away at our
freedoms and liberty.
Meanwhile, you’re
crafting legislation
that will allow the government
to barge into our homes.
STAFF MEMBER: We’re
fried. Got no time to recruit.
No time to vet.
If the House flips,
hello, socialism.
DAVID [over monitor]: ...by
taking it from someone else.
And that would be
all well and good
if it wasn’t for
that pesky thing
called the Constitution that
keeps getting in your way.
CHAIRMAN [over monitor]:
Now, you hold on a second.
No, I’m done talking to you.
I’m talking to the
people who elected you.
MURRAY: I remember him.
The preacher.
He helped out on those
education hearings.
Helped out?
I’d say he knocked
them out the park.
You see those statues and
those monuments out there?
They say you work for us.
- [applause over monitor]
- This guy is gold.
- Mm-hmm.
- The reverend vibe really works.
"...by the people,
for the people."
STAFF MEMBER 2: Who’s
gonna run his campaign?
Leave that to me.
DAVID [over monitor]:
America belongs to its citizens.
SMITH: Look, we’re six
weeks out from Election Day.
And remember, this is a
fight for the soul of our nation.
DAVID [over monitor]: ...and
the teachers in Oklahoma,
to every man, woman and child.
It belongs to the people.
We the people.
It belongs to the
people, Mr. Chairman.
We the people.
I am so sorry.
MONICA: We have no place to go.
[sniffles] How
could this happen?
The women’s center was
supposed to receive funding
for the repairs from
the government, and...
...it just didn’t happen.
- [baby fussing]
- [sighs]
[sniffles]
We can’t go to
the city shelters.
They’re not safe.
There’s a sign at the
women’s center that says,
"Provided by God,
through His people."
Who dropped the ball, Pastor?
I mean, I know it wasn’t God.
Please believe me, Monica.
I did my best.
I just wish my best was better.
I’m sorry.
Monica, wait. Give
me some time, and I’ll...
[sighs]
[bell tolling]
How’s it going, Pastor?
Uh...
How many more families are
left for me to break the news to?
Thirty-two.
I can talk to some of them
on your behalf if that will help.
Thanks, Martin,
but it should be me.
None of this needed to happen.
The government pulled
the grant money because--
are you ready for this?--
some women at the
center had a Bible study.
They canceled the
grant because of that?
They claim the center
used grant money
for religious instruction,
and that’s not allowed.
So the women and their
families are penalized.
[sighs]
It’s like God keeps putting
these impossible
mountains in front of me.
And the government doesn’t
make it any easier on us.
That probably makes
me sound paranoid, but...
About 50 years ago,
the Chinese government,
under the guise of progress,
blamed all the country’s
problems on religion and faith.
They called it the
Cultural Revolution,
but that is just to
cover up the truth.
What was the truth?
Churches were destroyed.
Christians were persecuted
and put into camps.
Countless were killed.
A similar revolution
seems to be brewing
here in America, David.
It may look different, but
the essence is the same.
So, no, I don’t think
you’re being paranoid.
And perhaps God put those
mountains in front of you
to show that they can be moved.
[sighs]
SMITH: So, you’re not gonna
ask me anything about my guy?
[scoffs] A pastor?
Smith, really?
You think that’s what this race
needs right now-- a sermon?
[chuckles] Well, what
this race needs is integrity.
- Mm.
- Someone unspoiled.
Hill represents what
we’ve lost in politics.
And yes, he is a man of faith
and he is a man of the people.
You think he can go
toe to toe with Kane?
- Oh.
- The man’s a shark.
That’s where you come in.
[sighs] So, what’s the ask?
You know what’s at stake.
The margins in the
House are razor-thin.
LOTTIE: Mm.
Why me?
Because there’s no one better.
No one had ever heard
of me until you came along.
I mean, you put me
on the map, Lottie,
and I’m just hoping you
could do the same for David.
[sighs]
I left this game
for a reason, Daryl.
- Left?
- Yeah.
Or ran away?
I have a son now.
Things are different.
Yeah, very different.
Actually, a lot worse.
You said you left this behind.
I know you see the
writing on the wall.
They will have complete control.
And hiding in the mountains
is not gonna protect
you from what’s coming.
You or your son.
I’ll have to think about it.
You don’t even have
time to pack, Lottie.
That is what I’ve
been trying to tell you.
We might already be too late.
We need you there tomorrow.
Is there anything else I
need to know, Congressman?
They sent John Wesley
to run Kane’s campaign.
- I know what John did to you.
- [gasps]
[shuddering exhale]
I’m not asking you
to fight your past.
I am asking that you help
shape our country’s future.
[insects trilling]
LOTTIE: "And then
the king was very sad
"because when he
touched his daughter,
she turned to gold."
CHRISTOPHER: Couldn’t he
just sell her for a bajillion dollars
- and buy another daughter?
- [laughs]
It doesn’t work that
way, goose. Silly.
You want to sell me
for a bajillion dollars?
A bajillion dollars.
Mm, not even a bajillion
quadrillion dollars.
Are you sure you’re gonna
be okay with me leaving
for a little while?
I promise you and Aunt
Ruby will have lots of fun.
Will I get to go
to Disney World?
Oh, bargaining. I like that.
I’m sure that can be arranged.
Yes, of course. Mm-hmm.
MAN [laughs]: Hey, great job.
WOMAN: Aw, good to see you guys.
♪ Roll up your sleeves ♪
♪ Pull back your hair ♪
♪ Let’s talk about ♪
♪ Why it’s not fair ♪
♪ Oh, I’ve been waiting ♪
- ♪ Waiting for a while ♪
- [laughter]
♪ I’m gonna give you ♪
♪ A piece of my mind... ♪
- DAVID: Okay. Focusing.
- You got it.
- Oh.
- [sighs]
[David groans]
- ATTENDANT: Whoa.
- DAVID: Oh, boy.
All right, here we go.
ATTENDANT: Ah, Rev.
Rev, what’s the matter?
- Ah... I know, I know.
- You’re off your game.
I’m just... I just wish
there was a better turnout
for the women’s shelter is all.
Oh, well, come on.
Give it another try.
- Ah.
- You can’t win unless you play.
- Sure. Why not?
- [chuckles]
LOTTIE: Oh, you know
it’s rigged, don’t you?
Oh, yeah? Why do you say that?
Well, I mean, the rings
are too small, and...
can’t win unless you
find the right angle.
Hmm.
Lottie Jay.
- Political consultant.
- Mm.
David Hill. Fresh
out of business cards.
[laughs] I know who
you are, Reverend.
LOTTIE: I believe in
cutting to the chase.
I’ve been hired to manage
your campaign for Congress.
I’m sorry, did you say my
campaign for Congress?
Our friend Daryl Smith
thinks you’re our best bet
at beating Kane.
Peter Kane, the state senator?
Yep.
Kane hides behind the separation
of church and state to
chase God from politics,
from the classroom,
public square,
from policymaking.
If he wins, any institution
with a religious affiliation
would be exempt
from public funding.
And I do mean
any daycare center,
nursing home...
...women’s shelter.
Yeah, but why?
I mean, those institutions
serve the public
regardless of their religion.
I hear you, which is why...
- Barbecue platter for you.
- Oh. Thank you.
And for you, the usual.
- Possum pie.
- [chuckles]: Thanks, Tanya.
Which is why the party
wants you to run against him.
- What?
- There’s possum in that pie?
Uh, no, it’s just chocolate
pudding hiding under...
Wait. I-I’m not a politician.
You think the country really
needs another politician?
Maybe it’s time you
try something new.
[playful chatter]
[laughter]
[sighs] Well, this
isn’t nearly enough,
but, you know, we did our best.
Thanks so much, Kev.
- Sure thing, Rev.
- Thank you.
You know, as a congressman,
you’ll be able to add zeros
to your charity drives.
I don’t know anything
about politics.
It’s public service, same
as you’re doing now,
except there’s nothing
you can do as a pastor
that can’t be undone
by a politician.
If you want to make
a real difference,
this is how it’s done.
I’m a small-town pastor
with no national stage,
and I’m comfortable
with what we’ve built here.
And I’m sorry you
came all this way, but I...
I’m afraid I can’t help you.
Hmm.
Well, if you change your mind,
I’ll be flying back
first thing tomorrow.
Give it some thought, Reverend.
You can call me David.
We’ll see.
[sighs]
REPORTER: The search for
West’s replacement has begun,
but at such a late date,
it’s uncertain who’d
be qualified and willing
to risk their reputation
for such a critical seat in
the House. We’ll continue...
We may just get
another shot at this thing.
What do they say?
When one door closes,
another one opens.
[chuckles]
REPORTER: A spokesperson for
the West family has asked the public
to respect the family’s privacy
during these most trying times.
So I’m either
checking out tomorrow
or, um, staying
for a couple weeks,
but I’ll let you
know when I know.
All right, that’s fine.
- Thank you.
- Carlotta Jay.
What a coincidence.
John. Hello.
What the heck are you
doing in this Podunk town?
They drag you out of
hiding for this circus?
I’m-I’m not in hiding, John. No.
You gain weight?
- Did I what?
- Put on a couple of pounds?
No, I... I... I don’t
know, maybe.
It comes with age.
It is tougher on women.
[scoffs] Wow.
Unless it’s the-the meds.
- Are you still taking...
- No, I’m not.
There’s nothing wrong with that.
No, I don’t need them, so...
Take your wins where
you can get them.
- That’s what I believe.
- [sighs]
Okay. Well, it’s
good seeing you.
Thank... Where are you going?
Why are you running off?
Come on, sit for a few minutes.
A few minutes. It’s me.
- [sighs]
- Thank you.
So... [sighs] who’s your horse?
I don’t have a horse.
I’m, uh, just
vetting, helping out.
- Me, too.
- Mm-hmm.
- My guy’s a slam dunk.
- [laughs]
In fact, when it’s over,
I am heading to
the South of France.
Would you like to join moi?
- Huh?
- Yeah.
- Wow. I am...
- S’il vous plaît.
Think I’ll pass.
Oh, it’s okay.
- The weight looks good on you.
- [scoffs]
Charming, John.
DAVID: So this thing is real?
SMITH: Very.
And why not?
DAVID [over phone]:
Yeah, but why me?
I mean, what about the
more qualified people
already standing in the
"I can’t wait to be a
congressperson" line?
Because at this late date, the
chances of winning are slim.
No one is gonna
risk their reputation
or their checkbook
on a long shot.
So hit up a small-town
pastor with nothing to lose?
Yeah. Maybe.
Hey, look.
You know, people are afraid
to speak the truth these days.
Either...
Because the truth either
loses or gets them canceled.
I mean, you’re a pastor.
You’re in the business of truth.
And I’m willing to bet
that you won’t run from it.
We need people like you
in Congress to pass laws
and make a change.
What better way to make a
change than from the inside?
DAVID: I don’t know, Daryl.
This isn’t for me.
What if it’s not about you?
Look, all I ask is that
you pray on it. Okay?
MONICA: There’s a sign
at the women’s center
that says, "Provided by
God, through His people."
[David sighs]
Who dropped the
ball, Pastor? I...
I mean, I know it wasn’t God.
[David sighs]
[sighs]
Can’t win unless you play.
LOTTIE: If you want to
make a real difference,
this is how it’s done.
SMITH: People are afraid
to speak the truth these days
because the truth either
loses or they get canceled.
LOTTIE: You think the country
really needs another politician?
MARTIN: Perhaps God put
those mountains in front of you
to show that they can be moved.
LOTTIE: Maybe it’s time
you try something new.
[alarm ringing]
[jet engine whooshing]
[indistinct P.A. announcements]
Miss Jay. Miss Jay. Miss Jay.
Reverend Hill.
What are you doing here?
Do you really
think that I can run?
[scoffs] Anyone can run.
I think that you could win.
Okay.
Okay?
We do this my way.
You listen, you follow
directions, understood?
Okay.
What made you change your mind?
Can’t win the game
unless you play, right?
All right, let’s go
save the country.
Great. I’ll take
this to the board.
We’ll cover the fees.
Clear your calendar.
Uh, for how long?
With any luck, next two years.
- Uh, excuse me, sir.
- DAVID: Yeah.
Uh, Tom’s Trusted Transport.
Please keep me in mind
for all your transport needs.
Don’t I know you?
Well, it’s quite possible.
I’m actually a fairly
successful stage actor.
Yeah.
No, you’re a waiter.
Well, that, too.
LOTTIE: Better get
some rest, Reverend Hill.
Uh, everybody
just calls me David.
We’ll see.
- [lively chatter]
- [cell phone dinging]
[muttering]
He’s in. He’s in. Let’s
get to work, people.
Let’s pick it up.
- Let’s get to work, people.
- [applause, cheering]
Let’s pick it up. Let’s go!
[bell tolling]
They found someone
to run against you.
His name is David Hill.
He’s a pastor. Ring a bell?
KANE [over phone]:
I remember him.
The Bible thumper.
WESLEY: He was a juror on
that teacher case you prosecuted.
[laughing]: Are we
worried about a preacher?
He’s not the one
I’m worried about.
We end this before it starts.
Clear your morning.
Get ready to do the whole
"separation of church
and state" dance.
Both barrels. I’ll
handle the rest.
[sniffs]
MARC: [laughs] Are you sure?
Yeah, I know.
Yeah, he doesn’t stand
a chance against Kane
without our money.
Hmm? Who’s running his campaign?
Okay, leave the rest to me.
BAND MEMBER:
One, two, three, four!
- [upbeat rock music playing]
- [crowd cheering]
♪ I can feel it in the air ♪
♪ Desperation everywhere ♪
♪ Spirit, come
and meet us here ♪
♪ Turn the dark into light ♪
♪ So come on, come on, come on ♪
♪ We’re ready for a... ♪
LOTTIE: Sit up
straight. Face Huckabee.
These guys are great.
Face Huckabee, your
hands on your knees.
Do all the guests get
questions in advance?
Today’s about first impressions.
We leave nothing to chance
and you stick to the script.
Don’t color outside the lines,
and remember, I am
the captain of this boat.
- I say...
- Stay in the boat.
Stay in the boat. That’s right.
It’s okay. He’s got this.
Well, Huckabee is an ally,
but we’re not really sure
how it’s gonna go, so we
have to make sure that...
Lord, thank You
so much for this day.
Give me the words
You want me to say.
We love You, Father.
In Jesus’ name.
Amen.
- Reverend Dave.
- Huh? Hey, what’s up?
I didn’t know you
were on the show.
- You guys.
- Good to see you, man.
- DAVID: You guys were awesome.
- [Michael laughs]
- MICHAEL: Yeah.
- DAVID: Good to see you.
- Thank you so much.
- Good to see you.
Are you here to talk
about your ministry?
Uh, well, no, actually,
we’re here to, um...
Actually, Reverend is running
for Congress in his district.
- Fantastic.
- Whoa.
- That’s great news.
- Excellent.
So you’re here to talk
about your new ministry.
- [chuckling]
- Yes.
My next guest is
a small-town pastor
from my home state of Arkansas.
He recently spoke
before Congress,
and the video
of that went viral.
Give me these. You got this.
HUCKABEE: He’s now
a candidate for Congress.
Please join me in
giving a great welcome
to Reverend David Hill.
[applause]
Welcome, David.
- It’s great to have you here.
- [cell phone vibrating]
DAVID: Thank you so
much. I appreciate it.
Governor, so nice to meet you.
HUCKABEE: Great to meet you.
What a great crowd
we’ve got here tonight.
So grateful to meet in person,
and happy to have you
joining us by television.
Well, David, you
know, if your experience
is anything like mine, uh,
you’re gonna get a lot of
questions about your faith.
Ah. [sighs]
Well, I’m not quite sure why.
My job as a congressman
is to represent the people,
- not to impose my faith on them.
- LOTTIE: Good.
Stick to the script.
Having said that,
I’m not quite sure
how someone’s sense of morality
doesn’t act as a
guidepost in public service.
HUCKABEE: I-I would hope so.
You know, most
people don’t understand
there are more ordained
ministers in Congress right now
than ever before in
all of American history.
And that includes
both sides of the aisle.
Uh, why do you
think that is, David?
Well, with everything that’s
gone on-- the pandemic,
the recession,
political divide--
maybe people are
looking for more spiritual
and moral leadership
in Washington.
We hear this phrase, and
it’ll be thrown at you a lot.
What about separation
of church and state?
DAVID: These days,
separation of church and state
has been reduced
to a catchphrase.
As much as no one
wants to admit it, the line
between church and state
can be pretty blurry sometimes.
HUCKABEE: Well, it
can, but if you talk like that,
you’re probably gonna
get into some trouble.
[chuckles] Uh,
believe me, I-I know.
I guess what I’m trying
to say is we’re all made
of both a mortal body
and an immortal soul.
And as long as
we’re still breathing,
- where do we draw that line?
- HUCKABEE: Hmm.
We’re gonna take a break.
When we come back,
we’ve got a lot more
to talk about with
Reverend Hill.
Please don’t go away.
[indistinct clamoring]
[shouting]
Only recently, we’ve
seen what happens
when our laws are
influenced by the xenophobic,
the misogynistic
and intolerant extremists.
People are looking for
more spiritual leadership
- in Washington.
- KANE: And now...
they want to impose their views
on us all.
The line between
church and state
can be pretty blurry sometimes.
Amen.
Spiritual leadership
in Washington?
Christian morality?
This interview was supposed
to pull you out of the fire.
You threw yourself back in.
What part of "stay in the
boat" do you not understand?
He took what I
said out of context.
Oh, really? A politician
doing something like that?
You’re trying to become a
congressman, not the Pope.
There’s more.
He wants to do a
live podcast with you.
Well, that’s good.
It’ll give me an opportunity
to explain myself.
- [Lottie scoffs]
- Believe me,
they’re not interested
in giving you anything
except enough rope
for you to hang yourself.
LOTTIE: Wesley’s got
something up his sleeve.
Then negotiate with him.
Get something in return.
[insects trilling]
So, they’ll do the
podcast if we agree
to a debate down the road.
That’s just an insurance policy
against you knocking
him out in round one.
Well, that’s smart.
Let ’em have it.
Uh, you know, Pete, I
wouldn’t be in a hurry
to make concessions
this early in the game.
I’ve already won, John.
From this point on, everything
we do is just for the cameras.
[chuckles]
- [phone line ringing]
- CREWMAN: Little bit there.
All right, we’re all set.
Larry, thank you for
putting this together
- at the last minute.
- Hey, not a problem at all.
- Thank you for picking my show.
- [cell phone vibrating]
You good? Can I
get you anything else?
- KANE: No, I’m fine. Thank you.
- LARRY: Okay.
All right. I think we’re ready.
[line ringing]
WESLEY [recorded]:
You’ve reached John Wesley.
- You know what to do.
- [sighs]
Hope I’m doing this right.
I’ve only ever done
my own makeup.
Uh, I’m sure it’s fine.
All right, this is not
what we agreed to.
He’s supposed to be
in the studio with Kane.
What do you say we
keep our religious beliefs
to ourselves today,
okay, Reverend?
What do you say?
CREWMAN: Okay,
here we go. Live in ten.
AMANDA: Sorry.
It’s gonna be fine.
- [chuckles]
- CREWMAN: Okay, going live.
KANE [over speaker]: ...where
I served as district attorney
and then in the Arkansas
House of Representatives.
And after that, I was
elected to the state senate,
where I served as
senate minority leader.
Very impressive résumé, Senator.
- [chuckles] Thank you.
- No. Thank you.
And you, Mr. Hill, says
here that you’re a preacher.
Yes.
Uh, I’m a reverend at St. Jude.
Right. Sure. And now
you’re running for Congress.
That’s correct.
Well, I go to church,
and I’ve got a pastor,
but, uh, I don’t think
- I’d vote for him, you know?
- [Kane chuckling]
Is your pastor
running for office?
[laughs] No, but...
DAVID: Then it probably won’t
be an issue for either of you.
- Nice.
- KANE: No, I think that Larry
is just pointing out
the obvious here,
that clergy in politics
is a controversial topic,
even amongst Christians.
Founding fathers were
clear about their intentions
concerning the separation
of church and state.
It wasn’t so much about
keeping religion out
of the government.
It was more about keeping
the government out of religion.
This sounds more like,
uh, your interpretation.
I-I will add, um,
Christians who are
politically active must be led
by biblical
principles and values
and not by party affiliation.
Oh, so now you’re saying that
these biblical principles
of yours would influence
- your decision making?
- No.
Of course.
KANE: And so, by your
own admission, then,
you would craft laws and
policies based on superstition,
irrationality, fear
and ignorance.
Suffice to say, I-I
don’t see it that way.
Suffice it to say that the
good people of Arkansas
will once again be held captive
by one of your interpretations.
This country should be run
by scholars and academics,
not by people who are
afraid of a bogeyman.
This man, he could not
represent the electorate
in a levelheaded,
rational, impartial manner.
And on a personal note,
I find your moral superiority
and smugness offensive.
Who died and left you
arbiter of right and wrong?
Fine. That’s a wrap.
[chuckling]: Very
well said, Senator.
- Yeah. Yeah.
- [light applause]
Thank you so much.
That was amazing.
Well, most Christians
are believers
because they
know they’re broken,
and the only hope they
have is Jesus Christ.
LOTTIE: Please stop talking.
The messenger may
stumble, Mr. Kane,
but it doesn’t
negate the message.
They’ve turned off your mic.
We’ve been set up. It’s over.
- [sighs heavily]
- [cell phone whooshing]
Oh, no.
- No, no, no, no. No.
- [door closes]
He’s winning.
They’re putting way more
into this than I expected.
DAVID: So what’s the big
deal? We’ll bounce back.
The campaign that
spends the most wins.
And we wonder why our
country has so many problems.
All of this money for what?
To make the country like me?
No, it’s to make
them dislike Kane.
That’s how we close the gap.
So the goal of the
campaign is to make voters
dislike Peter Kane more
than they dislike me.
This is the reality.
If I can’t get them
to vote for you,
I keep them from
voting for Kane.
I didn’t get into politics
to behave like a politician.
You want me to
let you dig up dirt.
Oh, no. I want you
to let me do my job.
I know people who
can find dirt on Kane,
and you can’t be afraid
to risk rolling in the mud.
That’s the easy part, Miss Jay.
The hard part’s
getting clean again.
Well, as sad as it
might sound to you,
it’s the only way we’re
gonna beat John Wesley.
SAM: Um, John Wesley?
She meant to say Kane, right?
What is it with her
and John Wesley?
Several years ago, I had--
and this is before
you joined the firm--
I had sent Lottie to
run a congressional
against John Wesley.
She was a rising star, and
Wesley was already an icon,
and things happened.
Uh, she thought of
him as a mentor, a...
a trusted friend, and he
just thought of her as a...
Distraction.
And as it turns out, a
convenient way for Wesley
to gather intel
on his opposition.
Well, of course,
Lottie’s candidate lost,
and everyone in
town blamed her for it.
Wesley rode off into
the sunset a winner,
and the disgraced Lottie Jay
disappeared, ending a
very promising career.
[sighs] Come on.
[grunts]
[breathing heavily]
[cell phone vibrating]
[sighs]
- Hello.
- WESLEY: Have you tried
the chocolate gravy
they have here?
I mean, I get it,
people like chocolate,
and gravy makes
everything taste better,
but chocolate gravy?
It’s an abomination.
People should learn when to
quit and leave well enough alone.
Don’t you think?
Anyway, listen.
Beautiful, I am starving.
So what do you say
we find a barbecue place
in a sleazy part of town
and pretend neither of
us are who we say we are
and see where
the night takes us?
We agreed to a real
debate. You owe me.
That’s not gonna happen.
What are you so afraid of?
[chuckling]: "Afraid."
See, that’s just the thing.
I have nothing to fear.
All I have to do is sit back
and watch you spiral again.
[kisses]
- [laughing]
- [engine starts]
MARC: I’m sure you’ll agree
we have common interests.
A partnership seems
mutually beneficial.
If you’ve already broken ground,
then why do you need a
congressman in your pocket?
Well, someone on the inside
to cut through all the red tape
so we can finish construction.
My partners and I don’t need
to be burdened with permits,
filing deadlines, inspections,
all of the roadblocks
that strangle progress.
I heard Rick West wasn’t
interested in your money.
And I heard you had none.
Hmm. We both know that
you’re losing truckloads of cash
each day that this
project is stalled.
You’ve made assurances
that you can’t keep.
And you don’t have a
prayer without my money.
Like I said,
mutually beneficial.
Well, either way, it’s illegal
to influence a campaign.
If we do agree to this,
I don’t want you even
talking to Reverend Hill.
Fine. Fine.
But then it’s on you to
keep your boy in line.
’Cause much like
his God, I can giveth
and I can taketh away.
LOTTIE: He wants to
fund your entire campaign,
lock, stock and barrel.
- Marc Shelley?
- LOTTIE: Mm-hmm.
I have to say I’m surprised.
What does he want in return?
What anyone with money wants.
More money?
Without it, there’s
zero chance of winning.
So what do you say?
Spend a little bit of money
on a celebratory dinner tonight
or make our way down
to the emergency ward?
Emergency ward?
Where your campaign’s
on life support.
Huh.
What do you say, padre?
[busy chatter]
You know we could’ve
just had pizza delivered.
LOTTIE: Mm-hmm.
So the reaction
to the podcast...
- SERVER: Here you go.
- As bad as we thought?
- SERVER: Enjoy.
- LOTTIE: Little worse, maybe.
Nothing Marc’s money can’t fix.
How does the
money get paid back?
Well, it’s wrapped up in a
C4 social welfare organization.
Doesn’t even have to
be spent on the campaign.
You know, if you talked
a little bit less about God
and a little bit more
on the dirt on Kane,
we might actually have a chance.
You want me to take
God out of the discussion
and replace Him with dirt?
I know my job.
And I know it’s useless
to fight dark with darkness.
It’s the same idea with
you and John Wesley.
Did you come here to
help me or to hurt him?
[sighs]
You’ve been talking to Myra.
I’m talking to you.
"Repay no one evil for evil,
but give thought to
do what is honorable."
[sighs]
You really have no idea.
Lord, thank You
so much for this day.
Bless this food to our body,
and thank You for Lottie.
In Jesus’ name. Amen.
[sighs]
Okay, fine.
Give me victory
over John Wesley.
Make him suffer the way I have.
You know that he’s
taken everything from me.
[cell phone vibrating]
Is everything okay?
Everything’s fine.
You didn’t call yesterday,
so Chris is asking for you.
[sighs]: Oh. I know, I know.
It-it’s been so crazy at work.
- I’m sorry.
- I’m not the one
who needs to hear
your apology, Lottie.
- Okay.
- [sighs]
Look, I know you think
you’re going to accomplish
something by being there.
Like you’re gonna find
some kind of closure
that will let you
move on with your life.
But your life’s here, Lottie.
You of all people
should understand.
I understand... it takes
strength to forgive.
How am I supposed to forgive
when he’s not even sorry?
That’s where the
strength comes in.
[sighs]
Hold on. Chris wants
to say good night.
Here, honey.
Mommy’s on the phone.
Mommy?
Hey, bud. How was Disney World?
Aren’t you’re
having a good time?
I miss you.
I miss you, too, goose.
Mommy’s got some work, but
I’ll be home real soon, okay?
I hope they’re giving
you a bajillion dollars.
["How Many Times"
by Newsboys playing]
[chuckles]
♪ How many times
have You rescued ♪
- ♪ A desperate soul ♪
- [bell tolling]
♪ Paved a way through
a dead-end road ♪
♪ Brought a garden to
life from the ashes? ♪
DAVID: The clergy does
this for its congregation,
and it’s really what I think
the politicians should do
for the American people,
because our walls are crumbling.
Our political
system is breached.
And I feel like we
need to come together
and we need to stand up,
because if we don’t do it,
who else is gonna do it?
The politicians
certainly are not doing it.
♪ More than the stars ♪
♪ In a thousand night skies ♪
♪ More than the minutes ♪
♪ In a million lifetimes ♪
♪ How many times
have You proven ♪
♪ You love me? ♪
- ♪ Oh, how You love me ♪
- [indistinct chatter]
- How you doing?
PUNDIT [over TV]: Well,
voters might want to see politics
as having a more noble purpose
than just their side winning.
Personally, I found Hill’s
comments refreshing,
even inspiring.
All right, well, Hill,
he’s drawing a line...
♪ More than the stars ♪
- ♪ In a thousand night skies ♪
- [cameras clicking]
♪ More than the minutes ♪
♪ In a million lifetimes ♪
♪ How many times ♪
♪ Have You proven You love me? ♪
♪ Oh, how You love me. ♪
[song ends]
- There you are.
- Thank you so much.
- Really.
- Thank you.
[indistinct chatter]
Hey.
They just filed
their financials.
Looks like Marc
Shelley rolled over the C4
- he set up for West.
- Ah.
How did Shelley
sell that bag of tricks
to the good reverend?
Maybe he’s not so good.
Oh. Maybe he’s just desperate.
WOMAN: Good evening, Senator.
Nice to see you.
Pete, Hill just got real money,
which means real media
buys and real influence.
- Hmm.
- Now he can afford staff,
rallies, office space.
Be a mistake to
underestimate this guy.
- Sure.
- People love an underdog story.
- So, what do you suggest?
- WOMAN: Senator, great speech.
I suggest we put a debate
on the books and end this,
but we have to control it.
- Like the podcast.
- No.
That was child’s play.
This is where you finish him.
DAVID: Hey, Martin, it’s David.
I was just checking in,
seeing how things are going.
Let me know if you
need anything, okay?
All right, thanks. Bye.
Hey. How are you holding up?
Hey, I get why they
call it running for office--
-’cause I’m exhausted.
- [chuckles]
Well, you better get some
rest ’cause tomorrow will be
the first time most people
have ever seen you.
Lottie.
- Yeah.
- Thank you.
[indistinct chatter]
- LOTTIE: The stakes are higher here
because people could
actually be watching,
- so please stay in the boat.
- Okay.
What’s with the tie?
What’s wrong with the tie?
It just doesn’t look like a tie
that a congressman would wear.
You, give him your tie.
What, you’re saying I
look like a congressman?
[scoffs]
[sighs]
Come on.
[Lottie scoffs]
[busy chatter]
Hi, Pastor. Good luck.
DAVID: Senator.
CREWMAN: Positions.
Let’s lock it down.
- Sign and the bell.
- [bell ringing]
Roll the intro.
- Camera three.
- CREWMAN: Five seconds.
CREWMAN 2: Ready
one, and three, two...
Go one and cue Dan.
Tonight State Senator
Peter Kane faces newcomer
Pastor David
Hill, his challenger
for the hotly contested
congressional seat.
This is the Kane-Hill debate.
KANE: There’s no place
for a pastor in politics.
There’s no place for
God in Washington.
Keep your morality in the
church and stay out of D.C.
I now realize that
your issue isn’t
whether or not the
government needs God.
It’s that you believe
the government is God.
No, the role of government
is to make lives better.
Why do you have
a problem with that?
I don’t, but I do have a problem
- with big government.
- You do.
- It spreads like a cancer.
- Oh, please.
Government allocates
money to help people.
Yes, but to give, the
government must first take.
It’s a cycle that breeds
dependency, not solutions.
Oh, you think your church
groups could do it better?
The church fills gaps the
government can’t in many ways,
especially in moral guidance.
[chuckling]: Moral
guidance. Uh-huh.
See, he’s saying that the
state needs the church.
Textbook example of
Christian nationalism.
That’s not fair, Senator.
[chuckling]: No,
it is fair. It’s true.
Whenever anyone of
faith promotes a policy
that you don’t like, you label
them a Christian nationalist.
Consider a Christian school
board member who opposes books
that they find
inappropriate for kids.
Is she a nationalist or
just a concerned parent?
[laughing]: Where
are you getting all this?
Or what about the
high school coach
who invites players to join in
on a prayer after the game?
Is this nationalism?
- I appreciate your passion.
- Or just a-a man who wants
to thank God for the
opportunity to play?
- THOMPSON: Mr. Hill.
- I’m not talking about coaches.
I appreciate your
passion, but let’s shift
- to a topic...
- Is he nationalist?
So let’s pivot to a
subject that affects
all of our viewers: health care.
Millions of Americans
are left without it.
Senator, what would
your solutions be?
Well, yes, I think that
health care is a right
and not a privilege.
We depend on government
action to provide it universally.
DAVID: And pile on more debt.
Senator, we need solutions
that empower people,
not bankrupt our country.
You don’t know
anything about the debt.
I know we should spend less.
So you would deny people
health care because of the cost?
- That’s not what I said.
- That’s your Christian charity?
That’s not what I said. We
need efficient, affordable care.
And where do we get
that, your collection plate?
You see, th-that’s
the crux of this, Dan.
He and people like
him, th-they think
that their beliefs
should dictate our laws.
Christians don’t believe that.
- And that’s wrong.
- Christians don’t believe that.
Yes, they do.
Then you’re missing
the point, Senator.
Our nation was founded
on Christian principles.
KANE [laughing]: "On
Christian principles."
It seems we’ve, uh,
heard that one before.
Well, I hate to break it to you,
but the idea that this
is a Christian nation,
that’s more myth than history.
"One nation under God."
That wasn’t added into
our Pledge of Allegiance
until the 1950s.
It actually started
with Abraham Lincoln
and the Gettysburg Address.
And the phrase printed
on all of our money,
"in God we trust"?
Again, the 1950s.
If our currency
offends you so much,
- why not spend less of it?
- [Kane chuckles]
Not only would
you learn to save,
but you might
just learn the value
of self-reliance versus
government dependency.
Oh, excellent retort.
And while our money
says, "in God we trust,"
it’s clear where
your trust lies:
in the pursuit of power
and not in the principles
that shaped this nation.
CREWMAN: Go to
commercial. Commercial.
Let’s go to commercial.
Go commercial.
We’ll be back
after a short break.
CREWMAN: And we’re clear.
Two minutes. Last looks.
Dan, get in here.
Much better than the
podcast. I really love the fire.
But you’ve got to
tone down the God talk
for the mainstream audience.
You’re starting to
sound like Kane.
And you’re making God an
easy target for them, Pastor.
God’s not the
target. Our country is.
God’s just standing
in their way.
Look, in order to capitalize
on the momentum,
you got to drop God
and we got to go negative.
Negative campaigns
work. They win.
- Senator.
- Making a spectacle of me
in front of the television
audience, huh?
Framing your agenda
as the moral compass?
- Senator, the debate...
- Quiet! Listen to me.
I will not be made
a fool of, not by you.
I’m gonna change the
landscape, Reverend.
This debate, that
was just the beginning.
I won’t stop until your
so-called moral high ground
crumbles beneath your feet.
Remember this moment
when you and your beliefs
were on the wrong
side of history.
You know, this race is
getting more attention
- than it deserves.
- Well, voters...
KANE: You need
to learn to relax.
Hill is done.
It’s over.
DAVID [over TV]: ...it’s
clear where your trust lies:
in the pursuit of power
and not in the principles
that shaped this nation.
...where your trust lies:
in the pursuit of power
and not in the principles
that shaped this nation.
What?
What’s the problem, John?
They’re about to go negative.
Because once they figure it out,
they’ll realize it’s
their only move.
Figure what out?
That they can win.
Lottie will dig until
she finds something.
Is there anything I should know?
It’s the holier-than-thou
crowd that has so much to hide.
My record is impeccable.
What if it wasn’t?
REPORTER [over TV]: Most
discussions have centered
around Hill’s last comment,
where he questioned
Kane’s principles.
Some have
speculated this indicates
the Hill campaign may have
found dirt on Senator Kane,
but for now, all we
can do is wonder,
what does Mr. Hill
know that we don’t?
SMITH [recorded]: Hi.
You’ve reached the office
of Congressman Daryl Smith.
Please leave a message.
Hey, Congressman Smith.
It’s David Hill.
[sighs]
Look, I, uh...
I don’t know what I’m doing.
I feel like I have two options:
I can either do the things
that I feel like God
asked me not to,
or I lose this race.
You can call me back when
you get a chance. Thanks.
[sets down phone]
[sighs]
LOTTIE: Have you found
any surrogate writers
for the website yet?
Well, then make them up.
I want at least 30 websites
to link back to ours.
Well, make those up, too.
I got to go. Bye.
[door closes]
Ugh.
[cell phone dinging]
Oh.
WOMAN: There was nothing,
then all of a sudden, there was this.
Is this the smoking
gun that I hope it is?
That and so much more. I
don’t know how I missed it.
Well, we’re not all perfect.
No, what I’m saying is I
don’t know how I missed it.
Something’s not right,
Lottie. It feels wrong.
I just need it to be right
enough to get me seven points.
Careful, Lottie.
There are things
worse than losing.
Not really. Not really.
[takes deep breath]
Okay, I’ll bite. What’s this?
Your golden ticket.
When our mutual friend was
at the District Attorney’s Office,
he successfully prosecuted
a money laundering case.
First-degree class B felony,
up to 25 years in prison,
even at the state level.
- Okay.
- After three hours
of deliberation, a jury
found the defendant
guilty as charged.
The sentence: six
months time served.
These are the wire transfers
from Kane’s offshore accounts.
These outgoing
wires to the judge.
Bribery of a public official,
conspiracy to commit
bribery, malfeasance in office.
[chuckling]: It’s
all right here.
We’re not having
this conversation.
Ten seconds after the
press gets it, it’s over.
No more campaign,
no more debate.
We all get to go home, and you,
you get to be Saint
Dave the Congressman.
I’ve been telling people
that my candidacy
is about more than
winning the election.
If I release this to the media,
then my promise was
nothing more than a slogan.
You don’t win unless
you play by their rules.
I’ve already lost if I do.
Please, destroy this.
No one else sees it.
Fine.
[Sam clears throat]
[cell phone vibrating]
[gate opens]
DAVID: Monica.
Hey. I am so sorry.
The campaign has been pulling
me in a thousand directions.
What’s going on?
Some folks from the
government dropped by
and told us we need to
pack up by week’s end.
That’s just... It’s
in a couple of days.
I’m scared, Pastor.
Where will we go?
Thought we’d have more
time, but I’ll make some calls
when I get back to the office.
This campaign, it’s just...
Your campaign should not
come at the cost of our safety.
You’ve let this happen.
You’re too caught
up in your future
to see our present
is falling apart.
I’m sorry.
It’s just...
...these families,
they’ve... [sighs]
...barely begun to feel
safe for the first time, and...
now they might lose that, too.
God provides through His people.
But where are they?
[baby crying nearby]
[thunder rumbling]
Hey. I wanted to tell you I
saw your debate with Kane,
and I was very impressed.
Thank you. I-I hope
I earned your vote.
Yeah, no, I don’t vote.
Voting doesn’t really
change anything.
Okay.
But I will join your church.
Okay, see you at noon.
REPORTER [over TV]:
Campaign manager John Wesley
has prepared a statement.
WESLEY [over TV]: Now,
I’m holding sworn affidavits
signed by the bank’s
board of trustees
that irrefutably demonstrate
that the account
numbers in question
are completely fabricated.
Therefore-- and-and
this is important...
...the wires that
the Hill campaign
accused Senator Kane
of sending and receiving
could not possibly have
come from their bank.
The documents that Mr. Hill
released to the press--
that were released to
you-- were all forgeries.
They were forged.
- [reporters clamoring]
- WESLEY: On another note,
Senator Kane would like to
express his deep disappointment
not only for the Hill campaign
and its staff members
whose desperation
in the final days
led them to this
libelous pursuit
but also to the good
people of Arkansas
who have had their
faith in Reverend Hill
once again shattered.
Thank you, ladies and gentlemen.
...who have had their
faith in Reverend Hill
once again shattered.
Thank you, lad...
[remote control drops on table]
[scoffs]
I know how this looks.
It was obviously a setup.
How could John have come up
with so much contrary
evidence so fast?
Oh, I admit I took the bait.
I didn’t leak it to the press.
Myra, tell him.
Tell him what type of
man John Wesley is.
I wouldn’t do this.
[sighs softly]
I’ll hand in my
resignation tomorrow.
Well, at least she
gets to go home now.
[snickers]
You can quit, too, Sam,
if that’s all the compassion
you have for your colleague.
Okay.
[drops bag on chair]
[staff members murmuring]
[phone ringing]
WESLEY: He hasn’t
dropped out of the race yet.
Huh?
But I’m sure he fired Lottie
and the rest of his staff,
which is a beautiful thing.
- [Kane chuckling]
- Hill can’t come back from this.
- You’re quite the genius, John.
- Thank you.
I mean, it was a brilliant
plan, executed perfectly.
I’m only disappointed
that I won’t get a chance
to debate him and strike
the death blow myself.
- [chuckling]
- Cheers.
PUNDIT: At the very least,
it’s likely that she’s
been fired from the team.
At this point, I don’t see
[over TV]: any
other option for Hill
- but to suspend his
campaign - [phone ringing]
and salvage even
a shred of dignity.
It’s still uncertain if he
knew the information
in the press leak
was fabricated,
but either way, it would
be wise to concede
and leave the politics
to the professionals.
[Lottie sobbing]
LOTTIE: I let him
do it to me again.
RUBY [over phone]: Oh, honey.
Did you really think you were
going to heal yourself
by hurting John?
[Lottie sobbing over phone]
Just come home, Lottie.
Just come home.
[sniffles]
DAVID: Have you
heard from Lottie?
PUNDIT [over computer]:
Campaign manager...
DAVID: All right, if
you can keep trying.
Thanks, Myra.
PUNDIT [over computer]:
It may be safe to assume
she’s responsible
for both fabricating
and disseminating
the false allegations
against Senator Kane.
At the very least,
- it’s likely she’s been fired.
- [sighs]
Pastor Dave?
Uh, I didn’t think
you’d be here this late.
City’s gonna condemn the
shelter if we can’t get it up to code.
Yeah. I saw that.
[chuckles] It’s been a day.
I’m sorry, Martin, uh, is there
something I can help you with?
This is very
difficult, Pastor, but...
It’s from the board.
They think you
should take a break.
They’re suspending me.
Just until things
are cleared up.
I know there must be
a misunderstanding.
I tried to tell
the board, but...
they said this thing with
you and Senator Kane,
it looks bad.
Yeah.
Okay.
I’m supposed to
ask you for your keys.
I’m so sorry.
Thanks, Martin.
You ready to go home, Rev?
Thanks, Tom, but
I’m-I’m gonna walk.
- [thunder rumbling]
- But it’s supposed to... rain.
[sighs]
LOTTIE [recorded]: Hi.
You’ve reached Lottie Jay.
Please leave a message.
[siren wailing]
Hi. You’ve reached Lottie Jay.
Please leave a message.
[thunder crashes]
REPORTER [over TV]:
Voters still reeling from
yesterday’s allegations
against Reverend David Hill.
Shocking behavior from a
member of the community’s
respected clergy.
It’s expected he’ll
announce his concession in...
Where did I go wrong, Lord?
[doorbell chiming]
- Daryl?
- [Smith chuckles]
Reverend.
I’ve been publicly disgraced.
I may have to move.
I could face criminal charges.
Maybe I wasn’t saving the world,
but I was happy being a pastor.
You know, get the
women’s shelter back open.
Now I can’t even
do that anymore.
You finished?
Have you heard a word I said?
Yes.
The Lord chased you out
of your comfort zone, and...
you’re not happy
with where you landed.
I’m withdrawing from the race.
Get my life back... if
my life will have me back.
No. Hmm.
You put your hand to the plow.
There’s no looking back.
You know this.
What’s in the bag?
[sighs]
Pine cones?
Lodgepole pine cones.
They’re covered
in a superhard sap
to protect the seeds inside.
Mm-hmm. Okay.
There can be no new growth
until you expose the pine cone.
The heat, extreme
heat, like fire heat.
So they have to burn?
That’s the upside of wildfires.
It’s how old
forests are revived.
Listen, David.
There are a lot of folk
that no matter
what color they vote,
they have lost hope in
the future of our country.
I see it every day in the
faces of my constituents.
Same in my congregation.
They’re wondering
where they fit in
or even if they should.
40 million
Christians don’t vote.
Then another 15 million
aren’t even registered.
Well, politics is
a dirty business.
Yeah, so is taking
out the garbage,
but if you turn your back
to it, things start to stink.
[chuckles softly]
- We can no longer ignore this.
- [sighs]
We have to push
the good of our faith
into this political process.
And it is your campaign
that sets the example
for Christian involvement
in the civic square.
- What about nonbelievers?
- What about ’em?
Things are so bad out there.
We build it right,
they will come.
In fact, they will
welcome our engagement.
I don’t know, Daryl.
[sighs] It just...
- seems so...
- Impossible?
Yeah.
It’s always impossible...
until it’s done.
Until it’s done.
SAM: I think you’re
making a brave choice.
Which means you
think I’m being foolish.
Depends on what you say.
Are you really gonna admit you
knew about the oppo research?
SAM: Just deny it.
You have to lie in order
to preserve your image
- of being honest.
- Did you just hear yourself?
MYRA: Well, there’s
only one other option.
You are gonna have to
throw Lottie under the bus.
Yeah, I’m not really
loving the choices here.
I’m gonna be straight with you.
No matter what you say,
it probably won’t work.
Your chances of
winning this election
have gone from
slim to nonexistent.
We were counting on that
third debate to close the gap.
There’s no reason for
Wesley to let Kane do that now.
- I mean, they’ve already won.
- Regardless of what happens,
there’s one thing
that I’m sure of:
Going forward, we
stop spending money.
No more ads, no more
posters, no more flyers,
no more social media spends.
- Come on.
- Nothing.
Damage control is
very expensive, David.
Please, not a penny more.
It’s almost time.
[reporters clamoring,
shouts of "Reverend Hill!"]
DAVID: Hello. Good afternoon.
Uh, hi, guys.
DAVID [over tablet]: I, uh...
I want to thank you
all for coming out
- on such short notice.
- [sighs, chuckles]
I also want to extend my
most sincere apologies
to Senator Kane and his staff.
I’m not interested
in your apologies.
DAVID [over tablet]: This
happened on my watch...
Just withdraw already.
...so I take full
responsibility.
All that is left to
say on the matter is:
I’ve never been involved
in anything like this before,
and it’ll never happen again.
I would add that...
our political system is broken.
It encourages good
people to do bad things.
And it’s up to us to fix it,
which is why I’ve decided
to continue my campaign
and drive that message
to the American people.
He won’t stay dead!
DAVID [over tablet]: I
would ask that Senator Kane
honor the terms of
our original agreement
and meet me for
one final debate.
- Thank you.
- [reporters clamoring]
REPORTER: Reverend
Hill! Reverend Hill!
The information
in the press leak,
did you know it was fabricated?
Lottie Jay, has she been fired?
[clamoring continues]
I would ask that Senator
Kane honor the terms
- of our original agreement...
- WOMAN: All right.
Thank you for staying
with us, Miss Jay.
DAVID: ...and meet me for
one final debate. Thank you.
[reporters clamoring over TV]
[takes deep breath]
First to the office, and
then to the airport, Tom.
TOM: Well, why are you leaving
when the election’s
not even over yet?
LOTTIE: Yes, it is.
TOM: Well, Rev
Dave’s not giving up.
He should’ve never
run in the first place.
I’m to blame for that, too.
Look, all I know is running
away never solved anything.
It just... it just
makes you tired.
I almost let you beat me.
I was this close
until I realized
you’re not worth my
pride or my self-respect.
Wesley sent the
Kane story to you.
He was hedging his bets in
case I didn’t go public with it
because he knew that you would.
You weren’t doing your
job, so I had to step in
and do it for you.
How was I supposed
to know it was a setup?
You were used,
and now a lot of people
will suffer because of it.
I’m sure your
career will recover.
I’m not talking about me.
[sighs]
It happened on my watch,
so I take full responsibility.
Looks like his
campaign’s gone sour.
Man.
Yeah, the Internet
said he was set up.
- Mm.
- MICHAEL: Goodness.
We should probably
pray for David, guys.
Let’s do it.
God, we pray right now,
Lord, for our brother David
as he stands in the gap
with so many others, Lord.
You bless him, Lord.
Give him success.
Let the results be Your
results, God, and Your will, Lord.
You would turn this
thing around, God.
What Satan meant for evil,
You would make good,
You would turn to good.
But we pray, Jesus,
in your name. Amen.
- ALL: Amen.
- DAVID: ...and honor the terms
of our original
agreement and meet me
for one final debate.
That’s all. Thank you so
much. Appreciate you guys.
I will ask that Senator Kane
honor the terms of
our original agreement
and meet me for
one final debate.
Hill drawing a line in the sand.
We’ll see how Kane responds.
I’ll appear weak if
I don’t debate him.
You’ll appear
confident, unconcerned.
This is and always has
been your race to lose.
You don’t understand.
These people
humiliated me in court.
I want to make an
example out of him.
Do you want victory or revenge?
- I want both!
- It’s too risky.
Remember, I call the shots here.
You work for me.
Make it happen.
[sighs]
LOTTIE: Don’t use a vacuum.
Lottie.
I’ve been looking for you.
I’m guilty of many
despicable things.
Betraying you wasn’t one of ’em.
Marc sent the bogus
intel to the press.
Kind of figured that.
You should use a
damp paper towel
to clean up the coffee.
You sure?
Pretty sure.
- DAVID: Ah.
- [both laughing]
LOTTIE: Thanks.
[David sighs]
When I told John
I was pregnant...
...he told me to...
"take care of it."
And so I did.
I’ve been taking care of our
son Christopher ever since.
Spent years...
feeling robbed and unworthy.
I let those feelings define me.
I didn’t come here to
help you win an election.
I came to hurt the
person that hurt me.
Letting go is the
sweetest revenge.
I am so sorry that I
dragged you into this.
I didn’t run because you
or Daryl talked me into it.
I believe God asked me to.
How do you know it’s God?
Well, you know
someone long enough,
you begin to
recognize His voice.
But sometimes knowing it’s God
is easier than actually
listening to Him.
Well, why wouldn’t you listen
to God if you knew it was Him?
I know, right?
[Lottie chuckles softly]
For most folks, it’s fear--
afraid to fail, afraid
to take a chance.
But sooner or later, we
all get hit by that storm.
Hits us at the
worst possible time,
when we’re already
far out and lost at sea.
Our first thought
is stay in the boat,
even though it’s sinking.
Doesn’t make any
sense, but we hang on
because it’s what we know.
And what’s out
there is terrifying.
But then Jesus walks
across the water,
then He reaches out His hand
and He says, "Do not be afraid.
"Come.
Get out of the boat."
Because, well, we know
that... that if we stay in the boat,
we’ll die and only our
hope in Him can save us.
God is good, Lottie.
All the time.
I’ll call Myra.
[laughing]: You are gonna
lose this election spectacularly.
Well, that’s all
the more reason.
Reason for what?
To get out of the boat.
[Lottie chuckles]
DAVID: This coffee is terrible.
- LOTTIE: The worst.
- [both laughing]
Good evening. I’m Ron Franklin.
Welcome to this
congressional debate.
This contest is not just
pivotal to our own community
but has far-reaching
significance
for the entire nation.
We’re not just choosing
- a representative.
- [David praying quietly]
We are selecting the
shape of our country.
DAVID: "He will give you
the desires of your heart."
FRANKLIN: Now,
before we begin...
"Commit your way unto the Lord;
"trust also in Him,
and He will bring it to pass."
You praying for a
miracle, Reverend?
- Are you saying you want one?
- [chuckles]
Oh, I’ve seen the numbers.
You’ve seen the numbers.
I’m not the one that
needs divine intervention.
[laughs]
I see someone else
behind that arrogant facade.
I see a man who’s lost his way.
Someone who’s forgotten
what it’s like to lead
with integrity and compassion.
As a matter of fact, I came
here to offer you a lifeline.
All right? A way out.
You concede the race now,
and I’ll return everything
you’ve sacrificed.
I’ll arrange for the
women’s center
to get the funding
that it needs.
I’ll tell the press
that you’re innocent
of spreading those nasty lies
about my life in public service.
You can salvage your
reputation, and who knows,
you may even get your job back.
[gasps, chuckles]
Surrender now, and no
one else has to get hurt.
DAVID: What about the voters?
They’ll get hurt.
See, this is the part
where you behave
like a good Christian
and turn the other cheek.
Your nation’s counting
on you, Reverend.
[chuckles]
What was that about?
[applause]
FRANKLIN: Now I’d like to
introduce tonight’s candidates.
Would you welcome
State Senator Peter Kane
and Reverend David Hill.
- [cheering and applause]
- [cameras clicking]
- Thank you very much.
- State Senator.
- Thank you.
- Reverend, great to see you.
Have a great debate.
KANE: Are you going to deny
that your loyalties to
the country are likely
to be compromised by your
allegiance to the church?
DAVID: That’s just
not true, Senator.
KANE: Well, it
says it right there
in your book right there:
"You cannot serve two masters."
[applause]
The church is subject
only to the Word of God.
And believe me, you don’t want
to remove that from government.
[scattered applause]
You guys remember
how upset you were
when they eliminated
prayer in school?
[over TV]: That’s nothing to
what our nation would become
if we allow them to eliminate
religious freedoms
and Christianity.
Oh, you’re playing
the God card here now.
- Think China, North Korea.
- Maybe you haven’t heard,
God is not on the ballot.
- European socialist countries.
- Do you hear yourself now?
I do, and so could everyone else
- if you’d stop interrupting.
- [applause]
FRANKLIN [over TV]: Uh, a
word of caution to our audience.
Kane knows all the tricks.
He’s never gonna
let Hill off the ropes.
FRANKLIN [over TV]: ...keep
your reactions to a minimum.
KANE: You call it interference.
I call it a caring government
- that provides for its citizens.
- [applause]
After all, "Do unto others."
Isn’t that the main
message of Christianity?
Hmm? Is it not?
No.
KANE: And isn’t "love
thy neighbor" central
to the teachings of Jesus?
No, Senator.
Central to the teachings
of Jesus is Jesus.
[applause, murmurs of agreement]
Why is it every four years
we have to watch a politician
take Jesus off their shelf,
find a Bible verse
that they found
on someone else’s Instagram page
and use just a piece of it
in order to advance
their political agenda?
- [applause, murmuring]
- Senator, you seem to miss
- the one key and vital point.
- No, no, no. You miss the point.
The point, uh, today...
The only reason
Jesus’s teachings
of "love thy neighbor" resonates
is because He
was the Son of God,
the Creator of the universe.
- [applause]
- Without that minor detail,
Jesus would just be
another false prophet.
- Well...
- What you’re trying to do
is remove God from our schools,
our culture, our government
and even our history.
Pastor, you’re laboring
under the misconception
that our country was
founded based solely
on Christian principles.
But let’s not
rewrite history here.
- Our founders...
- [feedback squeals]
they were a diverse group.
Some were deists,
yes, but others,
they valued a clear
separation of church and state.
And these men... these men,
they gave us America’s
crowning achievement:
universal human rights.
A simple yet radical
idea for its time.
MARTIN: They called it
the Cultural Revolution.
An idea that was expressed...
SMITH: They have lost hope
in the future of
our country. I see it
every day in the faces
of my constituents.
KANE: ...succinctly expressed...
Well, why wouldn’t you listen
to God if you knew it was Him?
KANE: ...in our
founding documents.
"We hold these truths
to be self-evident."
[whispers]: Get out of the boat.
Finish it.
Excuse me?
What comes next?
Or do you plan to rewrite
the Declaration of
Independence, too?
[laughter]
[chuckles]
Ridiculous.
"We hold these truths
to be self-evident,
"that all men are created equal,
"that they are endowed
by their Creator
with certain
inalienable rights."
Don’t you see, Senator?
These... these rights--
how did you put it?
America’s crowning achievement.
[cameras clicking]
They don’t come
from a piece of paper.
They come from God
and the biblical idea that all
men are created in His image.
- [applause, cheering]
- Okay... [mutters]
DAVID [over TV]: We cannot
remove God from the fabric
of our country without
risk of it collapsing.
Imagine if all Christians
mobilized and voted.
Do you know what would happen?
Ask him.
He does, and it terrifies him.
You have the power
to change things.
Not me, not him.
- You.
- [applause]
So send the message
to Washington.
Tell them that you’re not
ready to give that power up.
Don’t stay quiet.
Don’t be silent.
Don’t let them push
you into the shadows.
You are the salt.
You are the light.
[cheering]
Fight the good fight.
[excited laughter, cheering]
Yeah. Yeah.
What’s going on?
God gave you a voice.
He gave you a vote.
A vote.
Use it.
[cheering and applause]
[cell phone vibrates]
Huh.
[cheering and applause continue]
[muttering]
Use it.
MAN [over TV]: The
people have spoken!
Yes! Reverend Hill!
And all the time...
...God is good.
REPORTER: We’re getting
late into the evening now
as many mail-in ballots
are still being counted.
This race is neck and
neck, owing largely
to the groundswell after
Sunday night’s debate.
After a series of
unprecedented recounts,
this is sure to come
down to the wire,
and we may not have a
final result until the morning.
[birds chirping]
[siren whooping]
[cheering and applause]
[chuckling]: Yeah. Thank you.
Thank you so much.
Thank you.
Let’s open up our Bibles
to Psalm 20, verse
six through nine.
"Now this I know:
The Lord gives victory
"to His anointed.
"He answers him from
His heavenly sanctuary
"with the victorious
power of His right hand.
"Some trust in chariots
and some in horses,
"but we trust in the
name of the Lord our God.
"They are brought
to their knees and fall,
but we rise up and stand firm."
MONICA: Well,
you did it, Pastor.
Congressman.
Not just repairs
but a new house.
How’d you pull it off?
Marc Shelley.
Turns out the law allows
you to spend campaign money
on things like the
women’s center.
Mm.
So you’re working here now?
MONICA: I don’t know, I just...
felt like I wanted to give back.
DAVID: I know what you mean.
MAN: Let’s head on inside.
MARTIN: Lord, give
victory to the king.
- Amen.
- CONGREGATION: Amen.
♪ Some will trust
in chariots of war ♪
♪ Some believe in
nothing anymore ♪
♪ ’Cause kingdoms rise ♪
♪ And kingdoms fall ♪
♪ But there is One who stands ♪
♪ Above them all ♪
♪ In God we trust ♪
♪ ’Cause there is
power in His name ♪
♪ Age to age,
He’s still the same ♪
♪ In God we trust ♪
♪ Jehovah ♪
♪ He is Rapha, He is Jireh ♪
♪ He’s the banner over us ♪
♪ In God we trust ♪
♪ We believe He
is the Great I Am ♪
♪ We know He holds
the whole world ♪
♪ In His hands ♪
♪ Oh, Christ alone ♪
♪ Our cornerstone ♪
♪ And everything He’s
done, He’ll do again ♪
♪ In God we trust ♪
♪ ’Cause there is
power in His name ♪
♪ Age to age,
He’s still the same ♪
♪ In God we trust ♪
♪ Jehovah ♪
♪ He is Rapha, He is Jireh ♪
♪ He’s the banner over us ♪
♪ In God we trust ♪
♪ Oh, oh, oh-oh-oh ♪
♪ Oh-oh-oh ♪
♪ No other name ♪
♪ No other way ♪
♪ No other ♪
♪ No other name ♪
♪ No other way ♪
♪ No other ♪
♪ In God we trust ♪
♪ Your kingdom come ♪
- ♪ In God we trust ♪
♪ In God we trust ♪
♪ Your kingdom come ♪
♪ Cause there is
power in His name ♪
♪ Age to age,
He’s still the same ♪
- ♪ In God we trust ♪
- ♪ Jehovah ♪
♪ He is Rapha, He is Jireh ♪
♪ He’s the banner over us ♪
♪ In God we trust ♪
- ♪ We trust in You ♪
- ♪ Oh, oh-oh-oh ♪
♪ We do ♪
♪ Oh, oh, oh-oh-oh ♪
♪ No other name ♪
♪ No other way ♪
♪ No other ♪
♪ No other name ♪
♪ No other way ♪
♪ No other ♪
♪ No other. ♪
[song ends]
[music ends]